So time to finish this up now that we got an up and running function, let's make sure we actually utilize
the FIREBASE admin package, which we can use in our function to send a push notification for that.
We, first of all, need to import it.
And in JavaScript, we do this by adding a constant so a variable that can't be changed with any name
of your choice.
And then we use require to, in this case, import firebase admin.
So here I repeat, the package name, which you all define here in the package that Jason fall.
Now, this is in the end a package that gives us administration privileges in our function.
And we need those to send a message or to send push notifications.
Now, you can send push notifications in different ways.
You can target individual devices, for example.
For dad and your flutter code.
With the help of that based messaging object, which we used to get permissions and to configure our
handlers, you can get device token.
With Get Tolkan, this is a token which you would have to send to a server to store it in some database
and anyone who has that token, so if that is stored in your server side database, can use that token
to send a notification to it so you can send notifications to a specific devices with help of those
device tokens so you can get this token and use that to send messages to specific devices, for example,
that might be useful if two people are chatting with each other, then you would store the device token
of every participant in your database.
And whenever Participant A sends a message to Participant B, you would grab the token of participant
B and send a push notification to him or her.
So that is one option.
But you also can do something else with the firebase package here with the firebase messaging package
and flutter.
You can also subscribe to a topic.
And that topic is simply a string identifier and it can be anything of your choice, for example, Chet,
and this will do what the name implies.
This will subscribe to such a topic.
And now any notification sent to such a topic will reach this device.
And you can target topics with the FIREBASE Admin SDK, too.
So I will subscribe to this topic here to the chat topic here.
And with that, we should receive any push notifications sent to this topic on this device.
So now back in our index is fall.
So in that cloud function, we want to send a new notification to this topic.
And we do this by calling admin.
That's our admin and STK object here and then their messaging, which you execute as a function and
then dear send and you got a send to topic function, a to topic method here, which you can use.
And this does just what the name implies.
It sends a message to a specific topic.
So here you then, first enter your topic identifier, which, of course, should be the same one as
in the Flutter app, so hearable use chat.
And then the second argument is your payload.
So basically the data you want to send, that should be a JavaScript object, which you create with
such curly braces.
And in there you can choose whether it's a data message or a notification.
Now, I mentioned earlier that the notification is what we want here, so I'll choose notification.
And that itself uses an object as a value.
So you have notification and then a colon and then you assign the value for that notification.
So the object that describes this notification and in there we can add a title and I want to use the
name of the user who sends the message as a title.
So I will access snapshot data.
And then there we saw in our log if I go back to that.
That we can access the username field to get that username.
So I will access username here as my title.
And we can also set up a body, which is the main message, and that should be the message the user
sent.
So here I will use the text.
So therefore, here it's now snapshot data text.
So this should be my notification, there is more you can set and you can, again, as always, check
out the official docs to learn all about that.
I will just set to click action here and set this to this letter notification thing, which we did have
to set up earlier as well.
So to does flutter notification click identifier here as a string.
So that should send a message and this returns a promise, and that makes this entire process the ideal
return value of our function, this ensures that the function will keep on running until this message
here, this notification has been scheduled.
So with that, if we now safeties, we can redeploy our firebase function with firebase deploy and we
can also kill the running flutter app and restart that flutter app.
Now that we made sure that we subscribe to the chat topic dear to see whenever that all works the way
it should.
For that, I'll not just launch the app here on Android, but I'll also stop this again and now select
my real iPhone device again.
So today, all eyes are on the latest version on that device and launched the app there as well.
And here's the app running there, I'm already getting asked whether I want to allow getting push notifications,
so I will confirm decir.
So you're still up and running.
And now that both apps are up and running, let's verify whether that all works for debt, I'll put
the Android app in background and send a message from my iOS device.
And see whether that triggers a push notification on Android.
And that's not happening, and in the firebase cloud function console here, we see why, because the
firebase app does not exist, make sure to call initialize app before using the firebase services.
Little mistake from my side here in index index before we use the admin SDK, we should call initialize
app on it just like this.
That's one tiny extra line that makes a huge difference.
You should add it and thereafter just redeploy with firebase deploy again.
Now you don't need to rebuild your flutter apps.
It has nothing to do with that.
You just need to add this line to the cloud function and redeploy it.
And once the deployment process is finished, let's test this again.
So the function redeployed, so if I'm back here, let's try another.
Last year.
And send that.
And now it is looks much better here, you see Maximilien and never tested, if I click on that, I'm
of course taken to the up, so that's great.
Now let's try the other direction.
And for that, I'm switching to another app here on the iPhone so that, again, the main app is running
in the background.
And now I'll send the notification here, notification or.
Message from Android.
And let's see if we get this message coming up here on the iPhone, here it is.
So here we see the sender and the message.
And of course, here, if I expand this and tap on it, the app here is also reopened.
So that works on both devices, as you can tell, and that is how push notifications work and how you
can trigger them both manually through the cloud messaging console here in the Web, as well as programmatically
through some server side code, for example, here with the firebase cloud function code, and especially
if you're using all the other firebase services, you see that they're nicely integrating into each
other, that they're very easy to connect, and that you can build quite amazing apps with little effort
and not that much code.